GenAI 10.12 (#7920)
mendix/docs: content/en/docs/appstore/modules/genai/concepts/prompt-engineering.md

## 2 Typical Components of a Prompt

A prompt typically contains four components.

### 2.1 Instructions

Explain what the model should do. The model follows the instructions more easily if you:

* have a specific task in mind
* break it down into clear steps and create instructions that can be followed
* explain what persona or role the model should fulfill

When the input text is coming directly from the end-user, also include what not to do.

### 2.2 Context and Additional Information

After telling the model what to do, you can include additional context. This can include:

* information about the end-user of your application – for example their language, role, department, specific database records
* context information – for example, all data related to an object the end-user is looking at
* knowledge coming from [Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG)](/appstore/modules/genai/concepts/#rag)

> Tip: you can export to JSON or XML to provide this information in a structured way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tip: you can provide information in a JSON or XML structure to ensure the information is presented in a consistent way. From Mendix apps, you can use [Export Mappings](/refguide/export-mappings/) to create JSON structures and [Export XML Documents](/howto/integration/export-xml-documents/) to create XML structures.
```

> Tip: you can use export to JSON or XML to provide this information in a structured way.

Reviewer: Is this not just repeating section 2.4, below, or do you mean something different here?

Author: Yes, this is different. If a user want's to add information to the context (so the prompt / LLM input) they can use Export to JSON/XML to present that information to the LLM in a structured way.

2.4 is that the LLM responds in JSON and that the reponse can be parsed with JSON afterwards.
For that you need to provide an example of the JSON in the prompt to make sure that the JSON structure is as expected.

Reviewer: See https://github.com/mendix/docs/pull/7920/files#r1651322302 for a suggested update.

### 2.3 Input Data

The actual input, usually from an end-user.

### 2.4 Output Style

You can instruct the model to format the output in a specific way. For example:

* tell the model to specify its reasoning steps, or just give the answer

> * give examples of the output style you want, for example a JSON structure, if you want to import the response to  generate data or get information about the reasoning

Reviewer: Not sure how JSON helps you get information about the reasoning.

Author: Suggestion: 
> * give examples of the output style you want, for example a JSON structure, if you want to import the response to generate data or get structured information on the different steps performed in the propmt

Background:
When a prompt instructs a more complex process containing of multiple steps, you can instruct it to store substeps in JSON so you can import both the answer as well as the intermediate substeps.

Or in the case of this prompt you can ask the model to explain what is factual and what not:

```
When should I use Office 365 vs Google Docs. Give me a list of arguments and whether they are a preference or based on facts. Also give an example. Respond in a JSON array.
```

Response:
```
...
{
"argument": "Advanced features and functionalities",
"preference_or_fact": "fact",
"example": "Office 365 typically offers more advanced features such as better formatting options, more powerful data analysis tools in Excel, and advanced presentation features in PowerPoint."
},
{
"argument": "Ease of use",
"preference_or_fact": "preference",
"example": "Some users find Google Docs to be more intuitive and user-friendly, while others prefer the familiar interface of Office 365."
},
...
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* give examples of the output style you want, for example a JSON structure, if you want to use a structured response to generate data or get structured information about intermediate steps taken, or decisions made, in coming up with a final response to a prompt.
```
